The Doppler effect is a change in frequency of a wave reflected off a moving target.
Just to give you an example,
suppose we have only one object in the scene and when the target is moving,
then the received signal that is reflected back to the radar might arrive
earlier than expected if the target is moving towards the radar.
That is because the current wave is reflected from
a position which is closer to the sensor.
Similarly, the same signal might arrive with
a delay If the target is moving
away and that is also translated as having a higher or a lower frequency.
This frequency difference is known as a Doppler effect.
In our case, we use these Doppler effect to compute the velocity.